Exactly — you’ve got the idea perfectly, just let me refine it a bit and make it technically precise, because Docker doesn’t automatically update itself on git push unless you rebuild the image. Here’s how it works step by step:

1. Problem Without Docker

Your script depends on Python packages (requests, pandas, mysql-connector-python, selenium)

If another system doesn’t have these packages or has the wrong version → your script fails

2. Docker Fixes This

Docker packages everything:

Python interpreter

All dependencies

Your code (scraper.py, config files)

The program runs the same way everywhere, independent of the system’s setup

3. Git + Docker Workflow

Code in GitHub

You store your Python code and Dockerfile in GitHub

Also store requirements.txt (all dependencies)

Building the Docker Image

On your machine (or CI/CD pipeline), you run:

docker build -t my_scraper .


Docker reads Dockerfile, installs Python, dependencies, and copies your code

Creates a container image that’s self-contained

Running the Container

docker run -d my_scraper


Container runs your script without caring about the system’s Python or installed packages

Updating Code

Push a new code change to GitHub

Rebuild Docker image:

docker build -t my_scraper:latest .


Run new container → it has updated code and dependencies

⚠️ Note: Docker does not automatically detect git changes. You must rebuild the container after code changes. In production, this is often automated with CI/CD pipelines (GitHub Actions, Jenkins, GitLab CI, etc.)

4. Benefits in Your Pipeline

Works on any server → no “missing dependencies” errors

Can run multiple pipelines in parallel without conflict

Can schedule automated jobs (cron or Airflow) using the same container

Easy to deploy in cloud (AWS ECS, GCP Cloud Run, Azure Containers)

5. Interview-Friendly Way to Explain

“Docker packages my Python scraper and all its dependencies into a single container. The code and dependencies are stored in GitHub, and whenever we update the code, we rebuild the Docker image. This ensures the pipeline runs reliably on any system, without worrying about Python or library versions, and can be scheduled or deployed in the cloud.”